Welcome in this lecture.
We are going to be learning all about creating sessions these things that allow us to have multi player
match making and we're going to learn a little bit about what a synchronicity is why we use it in networking
and how we use it in unreel.
So without further ado let's dive in and see what's up.
So now that we're equipped with a knowledge of shared pointers I feel like we are ready to tackle this
shit session interface and start creating some sessions of our own that's going to be our first agenda
item.
So the point of the session interface is all outlined here in this documentation linked called us sessions
and matchmaking and it talks about what a session is is basically the thing that starts us in a match
making session starts as one wanting to matchmake with other players so it could be for example creating
a server.
It could be lobbying basically a session encompasses both of these aspects of match making.
It says I want to create a new area in which people can matchmake.
Okay so creating sessions that sort of makes sense now I want to draw your attention to the section
on creating sessions where we talk about the interfaces used as you can see here it says that it is
using the online session colon colon create session function which will create the session but it also
says something about these.
Once the session is created it called a delegates that's a bit strange.
Why not just return something out create session.
We'll cover that in just a moment.
First let's go and have a look at how create session work so I'm going to open up the online session
documentation.
We're going to look for the this create session malarkey and see if we can find out what it does what
it's how we call it.
Okay so we've got create session turns bull it takes in a hosting player number a session name and something
which we can't decipher so let's open up the documentation and see what that thing we can't decipher
is it is the new sessions settings.
It is a struct and we construct it obviously on the stack and it takes a reference a constant reference
to that struct.
Okay so that's what we are going to try and do.
I'm going to try and use the shared a pointer that we have got.
Now we know what a shared point it is to construct to create a session.
So we've got our session that pointer which is valid.
Now we know that our online session pointer is just a shared pointer to an online session which means
that the online session is being all reference counted.
And while we have this shared pointer there always going to be more than one references available.
So we've got the dot is valid that's just a function on the structure that is the shared point out and
it checks whether it is null or not.
Now I can remove the log message.
We no longer need that.
But what we can do is we can do a session interface and then we can do an arrow to go ahead and dereference
the t shared pointer.
You can do it exactly the same as you would with a normal pointer.
That's great.
And then we can go ahead and do a create session.
And this is going to take.
First the player number which we're just going to use play as zero.
Then it takes a name per session so you can do that.
You can create a name with a text macro the text macro to convert it into many of the different types
of text that you have in and real.
So you can just do that and you can call it my session game and then we are going to add in the settings.
Now let's go back into the documentation have a look.
It's called The F online session settings and that's a struct so we can go ahead and create that structure
just before we call create session.
And I'm going to quote this session settings that ago defined and constructed and we can pass that on
in to the function.
Okay that seems fair enough.
Let's have a go at building that and seeing if it works and makes some errors here.
Let's have a look at what they are going to go to the output log and just read at what those errors
are.
Let's find it somewhere in here was the first meaningful error session settings use is undefined class
f online session settings Okay so f online session settings needs a header.
Now you can go ahead and search through your code.
It doesn't tell you on the documentation unfortunately you can search through your code in the engine
to try and find the header in which this is declared.
Or you can do an F 12 in Visual Studio if you're using Visual Studio and you can see that it is the
online sessions settings that dot H that were looking for so let's go up and add that to our list of
Includes.
To do that include.
On line.
Session settings.
H.
How again.
I was also completing forming and you'll see it also says there's an undefined type of IE online set.
Well let's see if that's gone away with the build it's still got some errors so let's go ahead to the
output and have a look at what the error is.
Yep sure enough it is the undefined ie online session so we can use the same trick to try and find out.
I on line this session.
So I am going to follow the pointer.
The online session pointer I am going to follow the on line session itself which is unsurprisingly in
online session interface.
Dot H so we can go ahead and included that as well and just got a copy of the online session settings
and have the online session interface so you can see that these headers e are very very small indeed.
You need to basically include one for every object it seems.
Go ahead and build that and now see whether that's going to work out a few.
Alas that built.
Now that's great.
Now what we're going to do now is have a look at that thing.
I brushed aside which is the delal get a chance at something we need to understand is about asynchronous
operations because this creates session is actually going out to the network and as we know or you may
know doing things on the network can take quite a long time like needs to travel a large distance across
the globe in order to get response from servers.
So things don't happen nearly as fast as they happen on your own CPU or on your own graphics card because
those distances are very small.
So what we need to do is be able to carry on playing our game while the server is trying to respond
to us.
And this is where something called a synchronicity comes in a synchronous means not at the same time
a synchronous and it basically means that when this creates Session returns we haven't actually created
the session yet the session is still in progress of being created and we will get a delegate call back
to us when the session has successfully completed.
Okay so how do we deal with that session.
Call back.
Well we've got the documentation here for online session.
We can search for on Create session complete delegates let's have a look at the documentation for that.
It has itself the type of F on Create session complete so we can go and have a look at f aren't create
session complete.
This is a little bit complicated but it is basically a T multicast delegate which takes two parameters
an F name and a ball and its return type is void.
That's how you read this definition here.
This typedef definition.
So the point of this is it's a T multicast delegate not a dynamic delegate by the way it is just a static
delegate which means we don't have to faff around with you functions in this case we can just use normal
C++ functions which are actually quite refreshing and in your documentation links I have included the
reference about multi cast delegates here and how you bind to them.
We bind to them with a variety of functions depending on what you want to bind.
You can bind a raw C plus global functions if you like.
You can bind shared pointers you can bind you objects your objects are probably the best one we definitely
have a you object we've got our game instance and we know that that's going to be memory managed and
garbage collected automatically for us and all that's going to be dealt with.
So I'm fairly happy that we want to be using our you object.
Okay so how do we go ahead do this.
We're going to go to our session interface.
And we are going to go very much like we did with multicast delegates.
We're going to do the on Create session complete delegates and we can do a dot.
And you function or actually a new object is what I want to do what I want to add this new object and
very much exactly the same as dynamic delegate.
We would add this and then we would add with dereference do address off and we would get the address
of say whatever we want it to call say you puzzle platform game instance load menu except that doesn't
have the right number of arguments.
So you would have to declare that correctly.
That's what you are going to do.
We are going to be creating a session on host when we hit the host button on the UI.
I want you to go ahead and create a session and then what I want you to do the very interesting bit
is that when that session has finished being created and when the on Create session complete delegate
is called.
That's when I want you to do all the stuff that's currently in host all that tear down on the menu that
printing a debug message.
The travelling to the server I want you to do that after the session has finished completing which might
take a few seconds.
Okay.
And we also want to make sure that it only does it when it's successfully complete Not just any time.
So let's just restate that challenge for you.
Well I am saying here is that I want you to use players there like I did use any name for the session
use default settings for now and only go into the game.
If we succeed in creating said session.
So pause the video and have a go.
Okay.
Let's dive in and make this happen.
So the first thing I'm going to need is a call back function so I'm going to go into game instance dot
H and in my private functions I am going to go ahead and create a call back.
Now the return type was void.
You can check in the documentation if you don't remember.
And it was on Create session complete.
Is the name of the call-back.
And it's going to take an F name which is going to be the session name.
And it's going to take a ball of whether it succeeded or not.
Okay.
And I'm going to take that definition and I'm going to find it in my C++ file.
I'm going to define it just underneath our host function.
In fact it's going to be basically the host function so I'm going to replace the house function leave
intact because we need it as well.
We're going to need that to create the session and launch this whole process off.
Okay.
And so that's now on create such an is going to call all of this code.
But host is going to be something else host is going to have our session creation code in it so if we
go up to it where our special creation code is currently we can go ahead and take that sation session
create and the session settings set up.
I'm going to cut that and paste that in house.
Now obviously we have a problem here because our session interface is not declared here.
So what we need to do is we need to pull that session interface up to be a class member.
So I'm going to do that.
I'm going to take our eye online from point to session interface.
Copy that.
Go up to header and I'm going to stick it just above our on Create session complete in the private area
of our head a file and just declare that I online session pointer session interface and that should
do the trick.
Let's go back into it and we can now use that rather than a local variable check is valid.
We're going to still set up our delegate here.
That's a good place to set up the delegates.
So it's going to be on Create session complete delegates.
And you object this.
And finally we can actually use the.
The fully names spaced on creates session complete that you puzzle platforms game instance on session
complete so ampersand and then that is going to be ad you object.
So we can on the end of the line to complete that.
And so that's set up at delegates so there's going to be listening on Create session with that function.
When we hit host it's going to create the session.
Now we do want to make sure that our session is valid so I'm going to do an if session interface.
Is valid.
Because we dont want to be dereferencing it is null and we can then create a session inside that if
statement.
Like so let's go ahead and build and see whether this is going to work.
Okay.
Some errors here to handle.
So its saying that this session interface unknown override specifier thats a little bit odd.
And seem to be complaining in the interface that's just Bill that again just in case.
No no.
That is still the error we are getting.
So what's going on here.
What's it saying.
Not particularly obvious from this error message but basically what it's warning us of is that we don't
have the header included that's really quite hard if you came a cropper on this issue don't worry.
Basically we need to include that online subsystem.
H.
In our head of file because we can't forward declare this it's an online session pointer.
It doesn't it will need the definition of what that means.
So we need to put that in our head a file I'm going to do it just underneath an engine for Flash game
instance include Let's go ahead and build that and see if that sorts out issue has are build success.
So let's go over into one real and see whether our endeavours have worked.
Going to go ahead hit play.
Now I'm going to go ahead hit host.
Moment of Truth.
There was a brief pause.
There was only brief but if you look at the logs you can see that it's saying that the SS did an auto
log in and it said no game present to join for session game.
That is a bit of gobbledygook at the moment but that's how we know that it has called a create session
at least for now.
And the other way we know is that if we exit the game now go ahead and hit play and try and host again.
How it works just fine let me just try that one more time.
See what's happening here.
I wanted to teach you guys a lesson but have forgotten to do a little bit of the code that is necessary
which is if we go down to online on Create session complete we're actually creating this whether or
not we succeeded.
So what we need to do in here is do an if success or if not success.
Now my lecturer University always used to call this exclamation mark playing and I like that song Enter
you call it pling as well.
So if polings success then we are going to return early and I am going to log out a warning saying that
we were not able to create the session.
So let's go ahead and do that.
Log out that warning saying could not create session and we can remove the parameters to that log message.
We no longer need those.
Go ahead and build and see whether that's going to work instead now.
Well at the very least the build succeeds.
Let's go over into one real and see whether it's going to work.
So I'm going to go ahead hit play host.
Sure enough it isn't allowing us to host now.
And the reason is it's saying cannot create session my session game.
The session already exists because we created it in the previous game and we didn't.
We basically forgot to destroy it.
So we're going to be doing in the next lecture.
But it does show us that there are reasons for it to not succeed in creating the session.
And sure enough when we hit host and it hasn't created the session it doesn't start the game which is
perfect that's exactly what we want it to do.
I'm very pleased with that.
Congratulations pat yourselves on the back that was actually quite a tricky challenge.
But now we have been able to create sessions and asynchronously know whether they have been created
or not.
I'll see you in the next lecture or be destroying them.